+++
title = "About Us"
draft = false
weight = 10
+++

![sailboat](bw-sailboat.png)

Comprehensive technical and policy support for your company's energy and environmental projects

SeaJay Environmental is a woman-owned, small business consulting firm that 
specializes in analyzing energy and environmental policies, providing 
regulatory compliance support, preparing environmental impact assessments, 
storm water monitoring, pollution prevention planning, stakeholder 
engagements, workshop facilitation, and other direct project management 
support.

SeaJay Environmental provides high quality, time sensitive and cost-effective 
services to clients. We have served government agencies, non-profit 
organizations and commercial entities since our founding in 2007.

SeaJay Environmental also works with a network of environmental experts 
across the sciences and engineering disciplines to meet the demands of more 
complex projects while maintaining value and responsiveness to clients. 
This effective operating model is very conducive to providing high quality 
services without excessive overhead.


# Environmental Consulting

## San Francisco Estuary Institute 

Led a water quality monitoring team to collect watershed samples as part 
of the James V. Fitzgerald Project Area of Special Biological Significance 
Pollution Reduction Program. The data were used to evaluate differences in 
contaminant concentrations from stormwater discharges into this marine 
reserve. The reserve is recognized as one of the richest, most biodiverse 
intertidal environments on the California coast.
 
## Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary 

Contractor to the sanctuary providing permitting support related to 
proposed research, education and salvage projects. Also coordinating the 
White Shark Stewardship Program, attending GFNMS and community meetings, 
and assisting with other resource protection activities such as helping to 
develop modifications to the San Francisco Traffic Separation Scheme and 
responding to vessel groundings.
 
## National Marine Fisheries Service Office of Protected Resources. 

Created a SQL database to support and analyze Automatic Information System 
(AIS) data that were used to assess the effectiveness of a rule requiring 
vessels 65 feet and greater in length to slow their speeds to 10 knots or 
less near key port entrances along the U.S. Eastern seaboard and in 
certain North Atlantic right whale aggregation sites known as Seasonal 
Management Areas. Monthly reports were also sent to seventeen international 
shipping companies to help them ensure compliance of United States law 
within their fleets.

## Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Provided dive support for an invasive species survey in the kelp forests 
between Monterey and Carmel, California, and within the Monterey Bay 
National Marine Sanctuary. Counted invasive species (primarily Watersipora) 
in 1-meter quadrats along transect lines.

![bryozoan](bryozoan.png)

Invasive bryozoan, Watersipora subtorquata, in Monterey Bay, California. 
(Photo by Steve Lonhart)

# Energy Policy

## Shell Exploration & Production Company 

On-call consultant providing regulatory support and conducting research on 
various topics (e.g., marine sound, protected species, air and water 
permitting, proposed federal regulations, artificial reefs) pertinent to 
Shell’s domestic offshore oil and gas activities. 
 
## Offshore Operators Committee 

Organized an industry workshop to better understand the scope of medical 
evacuation assets, practices, and available procedures in federal waters 
of the Gulf of Mexico. Then prepared the workshop report on best management 
practices and gaps. Organized another workshop on sandblasting and surface 
coating operations in the marine environment. The purpose of that workshop 
was to obtain best management practices from offshore operators and their 
contractors related to procedures used to minimize the discharge of spent 
blast abrasives and paint overspray in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 
## Walsh Perú S.A. 

Prepared a regulatory document summarizing the applicable international 
legal framework pertaining to the discharge of drill cuttings containing 
non-aqueous drilling residues and issues related to the potential use of 
thermal-treatment technology to clean those cuttings. 


## O'Brien's Response Management 

Provided incident response support for the Enbridge pipeline spill in 
Michigan. Evaluated proposed oil treatment options for environmental 
effects on marsh and wetland habitats. Prepared standard operating 
procedures for sediment curtains and gabion boxes; and for site 
preparation, soil removal and disposal activities of contaminated 
sediments. Also reviewed quality assurance plans. 

![platform](platform.png)

Industry-Government dive expedition to Flower Garden Banks National Marine 
Sanctuary in the Gulf of Mexico, and to High Island 389-A platform, which 
is being considered for decommissioning as a possible artificial reef. 
(Photo by Carliane Johnson)

# Carliane Johnson

As the owner and principal consultant for SeaJay Environmental, Carliane 
brings more than 25 years of experience in energy policy, regulatory support 
and environmental consulting.

Carliane received her B.Sc in Biology and Chemistry from Florida State 
University, Tallahassee, Florida. She is trained and certified as a science 
diver under the NOAA Diving Program, and as a search and recovery diver for 
the Alameda County (CA) Sheriff's Department. She is certified as a 
Protected Species Observer through training provided by Geo-Marine, Inc. in 
Plano, Texas, in 2012.

Carliane is also an experienced sailor and solo racer with her 38-foot 
sailboat, Kynntana.

## [Statement of qualifications](qualifications.pdf)

